Demand Data Analysis Exercise


1. Go through the "Data Readme" section below to get an idea of the data elements provided. We expect you to dig through the data to gain more understanding
2. Pick at least one tool from - MS SQL,R , Python. We have tried picking free tools. For SQL, you may want to consider SQL Management Studio Express
3. Using the selected tool, answer the questions given in the "Analysis Questions" section.
4. Provide answers to the questions in summary tables. In addition, provide us all the calculation steps, scripts, codes, charts, graphs, calculation sheets etc. The goal should be make this solution process repeatable.

Data Readme

1. There are four files:
- Instruction
- Demand.csv
- Inventory.csv
- SKUList.csv

2. Demand.csv: There are five data points provided for each SKU:
Sales: The $ value of the sale
GM: The Gross Margin value of the sale
Eaches: The total units sold
Weight: The weight of the total units sold
Volume: The volume of the total units sold

3. Inventory.csv: End of month inventory for every SKU

4. SKUMaster.csv: For every SKU, following three fields are given:
CategoryID: SKU ID used by the client internally. Every ID has a category manager
SKUStatus: Current status of the SKU. Consider only active SKU for all the analysis unless specified otherwise
SupplierID: Supplier of this SKU

Analysis Questions

Q1. Normalize the inventory, and demand dataset for these columns (i.e make it flat dataset. each data item listed below should a column header)
Demand Data: SKU, Month, Sales, GM, Eaches, Weight, Volume
Inventory Data: SKU, Month, Units
Focus on making this step repeatable.
Q2. Rank CategoryIDs and SupplierIDs in decreasing order of any of the five measures (Sales, GM, Eaches, Weight and Volume)
Q3. Calculate total average inventory by Category code and SupplierNumber in terms of GM, Eaches, Weight and Volume
Q4. Calculate the weighted average of Sales, GM, Eaches, Weight and Volume per Unit from Demand Data. Apply these values as new columns in SKUMaster data. Calculate same values by CategoryID and SupplierID and report them out.
Q5. In each CategoryID, find the SKUs which make-up top 80% of volume in terms of RetailPrice. E.g. If there are 10 CategoryID, in each of the categoryID, find the SKUs which make up top 80% in terms of Sales price.
Q6. Analyse if there is any seasonality in overall volumes over the year; and also seasonality among CategoryID.
Q7. Calculate COV of Demand for each product COV (in units)=(Std.Dev of Units)/(Avg of Units). Create three clusters (Low, Med, High) in increasing order of COV with top 50% of units in Low, Next 30% in medium and bottom 20% in high.
Q8. Generate a pareto by SKU (in terms of Sales Value) and see how many SKUs account for top 80%, next 15%, and bottom 5% of the sales
